what what day what day is it today it's
a holiday for Canadians right we don't
really have to be here we have the day
off we're going to be working next
Monday but I thought that since its
Victoria Day which commemorates the
birthday of Queen Victoria - national
holiday in Canada this traditionally
marks only six more weeks of winter in
Canada on Victoria Day so I'm hopeful
that the sound is on on this computer so
that you can all rise and sing with me
god save the queen
[Music]
but we say
[Applause]
[Music]
this here is the web objects technical
overview got a kind of a smattering of a
technical overview in the last session
but I want to go in a little more depth
I want to actually build build a project
without any of those little wizards
because we Canadians are kind of rugged
outdoorsmen
types and we don't need wizards to help
build projects so we're gonna do it all
the hard way I want to show you the
tools I want you to understand the
titles of the other sessions and I want
to talk what about what is the deal with
web objects four or five one it's an
application server I don't like that
term but that's what we're stuck with it
ven's applications with usually web
interfaces to the internet but it's more
than that it's a most importantly it's a
collection of frameworks that do a whole
lot of really good stuff for you that
that we'll see in a few moments
for instance you write apps and they run
in this square thing here and they vent
interfaces by collecting data from a
bunch of different data sources by
manufacturing these objects by
exploiting relationships between the
objects and delivering a variety of
different UIs to the end-user
it's a developer tool it's got a steep
learning curve but that's okay because
that means you learn a lot in a short
period of time
web objects works with java gel by the
way and because it's Victoria day we'll
be pronouncing it Java for the remainder
of these session and we'll be saying
project builder in the Canadian way
works with a variety of databases a
variety of different UIs a variety of
different web servers open open open
open open open open where can you use it
you can develop as Ernie mention the
windows continues to be a development
platform but I think the experience on
Mac os10 is awful darn good you can
deploy on OS 10 on Windows 2000 on
Solaris on hp-ux theoretically on
anything with the right kind of Java to
environment and you can mix and match
these things as needed and start small
on one little server and grow to a big
hog and deployment you might start with
one application running on a little
server like this and then through the
ease and miracle of the web objects
deployment tools grow to a big scary
complicated thing like this where you've
got several copies of the same app there
and several over here multiple servers
and multiple databases and so on the
hard work of managing that kind of
scalability is done for you I should do
a survey here I'm put up put up your
hands if you hate it when they stop to
ask you to put up your hands people hate
off people keep going key ideas web
components at the front end components
that manage that are responsible usually
for HTML enterprise objects at the back
end that contain data drawn from
databases but they're kept apart and
bound together at runtime these
components typically can excuse me let's
just take a second Yello
oh ho fine yeah okay all right I'm gonna
say Panama okay say hi to Regis
so
where were we these HTML templates come
on is it serious do you think these HTML
templates contain this one special web
object tag it's really a marker that
says here's where something Goods going
to happen here's where we're gonna send
a message to another object to cause
something to happen there was a separate
bindings file that defines the meaning
of each of these tags and a whole lot of
pre-written objects that participate in
this whole process these components at
the front end typically emit strings
often HTML strings sometimes plain text
they could be binary image data they
could be Apple script commands they
could be virtually anything they can be
non HTML components they can be PDF
based we have a partner report mill
who's exhibiting over in the show that
has a tremendous PDF based reporting
solution that really works great with
web objects we've partnered Europe whap
objects we do XML natively and I'm going
to show you some XML stuff if if all
goes well later in the demo in for which
I have 72 minutes and 30 seconds I've
got a great clock here and I like that
scoreboard I like that scoreboard up
there did you see there was a scoreboard
to count how many mistakes I make I mean
they can put those up for the visiting
team or something enterprise objects at
the backend these are the objects that
implement your business rules they're
typically modeled app named after things
in your business like customers students
courses and so on we have an adapter
that draws the data for these things out
of a data source and we have these model
files that pick a particular adapter
from the vast array of adapters that we
have now and fetch data from some data
source and deliver certain kinds of
objects to your application they also
automatically manage in a very slick way
relationships between objects you're
going to see me go completely crazy with
the relationships a little later but
this back-end enterprise objects
framework part is the real gem these are
pure business objects that have no
notion of the fact that they are
rendering HTML or rendering PDF or
sending out whap thee they simply
respond to messages and deliver back an
answer and something else
creates them from the database the
enterprise object isn't even really
aware that it was fetched from Oracle or
Sybase or front base or whatever your
favorite actually is it's all completely
managed for you in a very clean way
these are all bound
together by your web objects application
that locates these tags sends a variety
of messages takes the results turns them
into the component sends it back to the
end user with literally a million in one
hooks by which you can customize this
entire process at runtime
along with some advanced session
management every web objects application
for free has a session object that you
can extend as needed and this session
object contains whatever you want in
there knowing you know that web objects
arranges to have one session object for
every distinct user who's coming to your
application you can extend this session
object to manage a shopping cart or to
keep track of what a users been doing
and web objects sorts out the thousands
of requests that are coming in and
delivers them automatically to the
correct session objects there's also
some runtime monitoring tools the
monitor tool manages that huge
deployment member that ugly slide I had
with all the the instances all over the
place a monitor takes care of making
sure that they're all running that
they're all healthy gives you statistics
restarts them as needed well let's see
how this actually works I want to I want
to do a little diagram here and show you
the sequence of flow of control of a web
objects application it's the Internet up
there and we have a web server and maybe
several app servers in the database at
the backend I understand the Internet's
grown I was going to put four IMAX on it
this year instead of three but but we
ran out of ran out of time so just to
elaborate once again with the various
platforms are that web server could be
anything it could be virtually anything
we have an adapter that plugs into the
web server and takes requests coming in
from the user on their web browser and
routes them to the appropriate
application and through that web server
the responses from these applications
are delivered back to the end-user we
have special plug-ins for a variety of
popular web servers than that scape
server Apache IAS we have a generic CGI
plugin if you're running some other
peculiar web server web server web
server pardon me and the application
server has a limitless now that is Java
to of potentially limitless collection
of machines that you could deploy the
application on anywhere there's a Java
to environment
this is a major step from last year last
year we had to tell you that you could
use hp-ux or Solaris or Windows NT or
Mac OS 10 server now you can use
virtually anything with the appropriate
Java Runtime the adapter at the backend
in the past we had several different
adapters one for every distinct database
and there was a whole mishmash of which
adapters ran on which servers and a lot
of restrictions that prevented you from
getting for instance to sequel server if
you were running on Mac OS 10 a lot of
other combinations didn't work but now
that we've got JDBC as a pure Java way
of moving the SQL commands back and
forth from the database we can talk to
all the databases on all the different
platforms so let's suppose we had a
really simple application here and we're
gonna follow the flow of control here to
give you an idea of the processing
that's going on I'm picturing some sort
of beginner application where I type my
username in there and then it fetches
some info about me and says hi Steve
well there's really three steps that are
going on here that the web objects
application is going to take some values
from that initial request it's going to
notice that you typed s haman in in a
form field it's going to invoke some
sort of an action some sort of logic
that says all right we got this submit
button what do we do now what page do we
go - what processing did we do and then
it's going to generate a response a
stream of HTML that's going to come back
to the end-user how does this actually
happen well a user would submit a
request to a web server the adapter on
the web server would find one of many
different instances many different
identical processes representing your
application and and forward the request
to the right one your session object in
there would find the the web objects
component that generated the initial
page the component that put up the
what's your name page and it would study
the various form values that came in we
seem to have received a text field
someone's type s haman in the text field
and according to our instructions we
need to bind that to our user name
variable the requesting component then
there's another step it goes through it
figures out which action to invoke the
submit button is connected in it by a
means I'll show you
- perhaps a specific Java message being
sent to a specific class back in the
application server that class might be a
method called that action might be a
method called handle login here returns
another component so there would be some
Java code associated with this they
could do whatever business logic you
want I want to fetch the customer with
the username that we just got and I want
to return some other page and I want to
put the customer's name and in this
session that kind of thing is a fairly
common paradigm that action returns
another component that other component
is the thing that's going to generate
the response to the end user so the
session loads the response component
another one of these things with web
object tags in it it studies them it
finds the tags it identifies what it
needs to replace in this component so
that it can generate the response in
this case it's noticing I've got a thing
here called a I've got in my HTML file
I've got this tag that says name equals
username and in this extra file I have a
definition that says username it's a
string and you send the message customer
to the session object and you send the
message first name to that object
whatever comes out of that replace this
little tag with it and all that that may
cause various objects to be fetched in
the database all transparently via this
Enterprise objects framework we might in
this case need to load some sort of an
enterprise objects model that says oh by
the way customer objects are coming out
of the cust
table on oracle and the enterprise
objects framework automatically figures
out whatever ugly SQL it has to generate
it sends it to the database a bunch of
rows come back from the database and
they're converted into enterprise
objects this is all happening while you
wait it's all happening without the need
for you to have any intervention here
this is a very seamless process so a
customer object is created with the
results of that fetch from the database
and populated with some data we've got
this model set up that says customers
have a name and they have a address and
they have the first name on a last name
and a relationship to some other things
the object is created automatically we
need to send the message first name to
that customer object and it responds
Steve hey coincidence and that response
is substituted back into the web objects
template you can see it used to say web
object name equals user name and now
that's replaced
with this single string steve so the
stuff that's actually going out to the
end-user has no evidence that it's ever
actually been through this entire web
objects process here then this session
sends the plain HTML back to the user
and they are happy happy happy here it
comes
welcome back Steve but it's actually a
fairly elegant process when you get used
to it I mean it seems like 300 steps
when I describe it here and it seemed
like 10000 steps when I was making this
slide but most of those steps just just
happen automatically for every web
objects application it's just one of the
many great things that you get for free
with this environment and we call that
the request response luke request comes
in from a user and a response is
generated and sent back to that user and
if you look into the web objects
documentation we all heard help as well
the web objects documentation is
becoming you'll see a variety of methods
like take values from request or invoke
action or append two response and these
messages are automatically delivered to
various components in your application
if they wish to receive them and they
can all participate in this and add
their own little bits of HTML or modify
state in some way as the result is going
back so that request response Luke was
considerably more important to web
objects developers one year ago because
if you wanted to do that more than 25
more than 100 times a minute you had to
give us $50,000 now you just give us
$700 you can do it as many times as you
like
what what a deal what a deal you'll note
from this that the SQL and the HTML are
kept as far apart as possible this is
really a fundamental tenet of web
objects we keep database logic over here
database access stuff over here we keep
user interface code for drawing UIs over
here we keep business logic in the
middle and there's no need for you as a
developer to worry about writing HTML
yourself we have tools that can help you
do that or generating SQL yourself again
we have tools our modeling tool that
builds that model they all figure out
how to do that unless you want to and
that's one of the other great things
about web objects is that if you want to
you can override virtually every one of
those arrows on that last presentation
and cause something special to happen in
your case frequently not necessary but a
great thing to have in the in the bag of
tools as we move along your brief drink
of water here excuse me those are really
100 degrees in Sacramento today I mean
isn't that like the boiling point of
water how do you stand it down here so
let's let's talk about the tools project
builder web objects builder yo modeler
web objects builder is one of the more
interesting ones that you can learn all
about in session 603 on the introduction
to web objects tools it recognizes the
fact that you need to create a whole
bunch of these web objects components in
an application and a component typically
contains some HTML like we just saw with
these web object tags in them and that's
it's a directory called let's say main
wo with a file and it called main dot
HTML then there's a second file called a
wad file just love that name the wad
file that defines the meaning of each of
these tags in the first file so you see
we're keeping anything even remotely
resembling business logic out of the
HTML it's just this one little tag then
we put in the HTML hands up everyone who
says how come you didn't write the
closing slash web object tag on this
little example all the yeah I write all
my buddies over here why did the font
would have been too small if I did that
the technically a web object name equals
string and then a closing tag you can
learn all about that are we going at it
like that level of detail any of the
other sessions I don't know but there's
typically a Java class associated with
each of these as well so my main
component for instance there's really
three files associated with it an HTML
file a web object declaration file and a
bit of business logic in this Java file
it's Java Java file really do you really
prefer that I can't believe it and a bit
of logic that you as a developer write
that defines what happens for some of
these tags when we click on place order
on the hyperlink over there it sends
this message and it adds something to a
shopping cart and takes us to a checkout
page you write logic like that in a Java
file web objects combines it at runtime
with these HTML and
odd pieces and a stream of often plain
HTML was sent back to the end-user that
would be a simple component you're going
to create a lot of these in a web
objects application usually one for each
page often one for little sub components
of the page often you'll collect
interesting components from your buddies
and drag them into the application and
reuse them in effective ways you can
have components that wrap themselves
around other components to enhance what
the inner one is doing and we provide
components for a bunch of common UI
elements out-of-the-box but you
typically write lots of your own using
the web objects builder tool now how do
you actually make these components
they're all files okay you can use
whichever your favorite tool is for
editing editing these things but you
know there are sort of professional
level tools as well and I don't know why
you couldn't do with with cat although
UNIX hackers maybe we'd rather use DD
you know you could use you can use that
to create a component alright let's
let's show that but you can also use any
visual HTML editor you like some of them
particularly go-live have excellent
support for managing web objects tags as
well and we have our own tool that we
think you'll like now nobody says you
have to use web objects builder but it's
it's it's pretty nice engineering is
done a nice job on this thing so this is
what web objects builder looks like when
it's editing one of these components and
you're gonna see this in excruciating
detail in a few minutes here so you have
a view of some HTML in the middle with
little Taggy things in there that
represent objects you've dropped into
this HTML application up at the top you
have an inspector that tells you the
properties of the currently selected
thing in this case I've got that that
click here hyperlink selected so you can
see the properties of a wo hyperlink
object at the top and at the bottom you
have an object browser that shows you
what attributes and methods are
available in the collection of objects
that your application currently contains
and you draw lines I can tell here that
my list is called main my main component
has an application variable a session
variable a product variable it also has
a place order method web objects builder
has
this out by looking around at the other
tools to see what you're doing and I
would like it when the user clicks on
that hyperlink to send the message place
order back to my main object so I can
figure out how to get to the next page
well you do this by drawing a line it
doesn't look exactly like that that was
the closest I could come in PowerPoint
but you draw a line from the method that
you want at the bottom to the object you
want to connect it to at the top the
hyperlink in this case and you choose a
property of hyperlink objects hyperlinks
have a string that they can contain and
they have a direct action name that I
really must read the documentation about
sometime and they have a bunch of other
properties here that are available but I
want to connect it to action which is
certainly the most popular one of all
the hyperlink methods this is the method
you connect to if you want a hyperlink
to actually do something and having done
that you'll see at the top the inspector
reflects that particular change so web
objects development of web objects
builder is an ongoing process of drawing
lots of these little lines connecting
things from here to there picking
through objects in your browser down
here design your HTML visually up here
and saving it all as one of these main
wo components or header wo or catalog
item wo if you like you can also work in
raw mode if you're really excited about
typing raw HTML you can dive into that
with web objects builder and it will
give you a view of the text of the HTML
file and the actual text of the WOD file
if you insist on now you know
occasionally that's handy you can also
use palettes to organize your stuff
these these first two over here are
palettes that come with web objects
there's I think that are five that come
with web objects now I'm a bit of a
palette pack rat and you'll see some of
my others later you can create your own
palettes with useful objects on them
like the amazing PluralEyes err that we
saw last year or a shopping cart or a
buy button or a localizer bar right
these little things once and put them on
a pallet then you can reuse them in in
web objects easily by dragging and
dropping I'm sure are wondering what
that one in the middle is it's not
working right now I really want to show
it to you as a shame well give it a shot
we have lots of extra time at the end
we'll give it a shot another important
tool geo modeler this is really an
editor for a Oh model D files or if you
want to be incredibly
antek yo model deed directories that
contain a bunch of files one of these
object models is full of information
that describe how to connect to a
particular data source how to retrieve
values from certain tables in that data
source what kind of objects to make what
kind of relationships to have between
them and EEO modeler is really a
graphical editor that lets you set all
this stuff up so this is one that's kind
of finished for a cars database that you
might have and hidden inside this EAL
model is a lot of useful information
that you that you've set up there's
database connection information that
tells you the particular database that
you want to talk to in this case we're
talking to - you know that's not even
right that's where do we have the real
why I made that last night I looked at
my slide know Jesus my Alban was wrong
and this one is not really any better
but you'll see that in a moment because
we're gonna make a neo model and you'll
see what it actually looks like there's
also information about entities and
tables built in here an entity is a kind
of a thing a general class of things
that come out of a neo model the table
is the particular database table they
come from we can see in here that the
MDL table in let's say our Oracle
database that this thing is connecting
to every row in that is going to
correspond to a vehicle object I'm not
stuck with ugly schemas with incorrectly
spelled table names in the did not that
that ever happens but in the in the
database I can put a nice meaningful
view on it I want the vehicle objects to
come out of the MDL table in Oracle
there's also detailed information about
each of these entities the vehicle
object you can see it's got a bunch of
properties it has a base price and a
loaded price and some image JPEG data
and those things all correspond to
certain columns certain columns in the
Oracle table that we're getting this
stuff from
for instance the base price of the
vehicle corresponds to the P R min
column in Oracle so once yo MA once the
enterprise objects framework has
manufactured one of these vehicle
objects for you you can send the message
base price and it's going to go oh okay
here you go returning the data from that
column of the Oracle table there's also
relationship information down here at
the bottom vehicles have a related maker
object the Corvette
object is related to the Chevrolet more
some of the relationship information in
the bottom half we can see that there's
maker objects corresponding to a
different table and eel modeler
maintains these relationships sometimes
one-to-one a car has one maker sometimes
they're one-to-many the chevrolet makes
a whole bunch of cars and all that
information about how to actually do
those SQL joins is hidden in this model
and it's something you can exploit very
easily later with web objects builder yo
modeler can manage some fairly complex
relationships here you get a diagram
view that you saw in the previous
presentation that lets you see what
relationships actually exist you can
even draw new ones that might not be
actually defined by the database and my
favorite part of all this is what we
call key value coding it's this idea
that you can make up these little
expressions vehicle maker named ask the
vehicle object for its maker ask that
object for its name you got a string
like Chrysler vehicle dot packages give
me the list of all the packages to go
with this particular car you send these
simple string messages of these dots in
them you send even fancier ones with
this @ sign notation they can do
averages and sums and maximums and
minimums and that's that patented key
that is it patented this patented isn't
that software patents are evil but this
is a good one this is a good one this is
good
sorry sorry oh I forgot where I was go
but not this one this is a great
software patent and because it expresses
this simple concept that no one's
thought to do before the a dot B dot C
to D as a stream of messages in a you
know I was gonna say language
independent way but that only matter it
last year when we were doing Objective C
and Java but in a nice neutral way that
lets you specify how to traverse this
graph of objects and how to get results
out of it you'll see this exploited in
web objects builder when I get to that
in a moment I tend to go nuts with these
things
I am I made up one when I was working on
my demo I made up an expression like
that that had seven dots in it and to
add signs which was a personal best for
me I don't think I've ever come up with
a reason to have two of these at signs
and a key value coding expression anyone
ever had to add signs and key value
coding before I'm on the first off
cheese
but thank you there you're not but it
was so complicated I looked at I
couldn't understand it after I'd done it
I thought well maybe you better not do
that in today's demo so we'll try to
keep that part simple let's do a really
brief ile modeler demo if I could have a
demo screen three here you can see that
I'm working on a machine that's
protected by this secret shroud here I
think this is our new 18 and
three-quarter inch monitor that hasn't
been released yet so you can't actually
look at it but I'm looking at a great
picture here so I want to build a new
model using le modeler here meant to
launch this before here we go no splash
screen in this version let's build a new
model and remember a model is just a
document that describes all of this
connection information that you might
need in order to determine how to make
objects I'll tell you a little bit the
database I'm using I have this big
database of presidential elections from
the past hundred years all the
candidates every who's ever run for
president because I'm fascinated by this
American process of how do you decide
who the president is that's okay
I don't know something about electrical
votes I don't really know what those are
but it's just it seems like a great
database to kind of work at maybe we can
write a business rule that decides who
the winner is and kind of speed up this
process a bit here so I'll tell you one
of the great thing you want to go with
great things about web objects five we
have simplified your choice of database
adapter
jdbc or none
I love the nun adapter but I think today
we use the JDBC adapter one adapter that
lets you connect to a variety of data
sources in a nice cross-platform
database independent kind of way you
need to have what they call a type 4
JDBC driver for your particular database
install in a certain spot on the system
but since those are pure Java classes
you can do that on any machine here
the fun part is in remembering the
clever syntax for this URL that connects
you to that particular database this is
my least favorite part here on JDBC : oh
god what am i doing open days go on / /
localhost / US elections that's a URL
that describes how to use JDBC to load a
certain kind of driver get to open base
in this case and fetch information from
the US elections database running on
this machine these plugins are little
helpers because I gather JDBC isn't just
quite rich enough to find all the
information that we need from a remote
data source so we have a little
additional classes that help out here
and now you're prompted for what kind of
information from that database do you
want to actually incorporate in your
model there are I don't have any stored
procedures to worry about I got to do
custom enterprise objects later but
we'll deselect those and look at the
rest of these what of all the tables in
your database which ones you want to use
well I've got a table for candidates and
I've got one for elections and one for
votes and well let's use all what the
heck now
yo modeler wants to be a nice citizen
and and work with the referential
integrity rules that you specified for
the database you know I was it next year
because I don't know what this is all
about this I'm sure
I should look that up you know what that
there's a reason I'm in sales and I'm
not actually delivering the consulting
services it's probably safer for
everyone that way but here here is our
yo model that has just been created and
this is a view like we kind of saw a few
dozen PowerPoint slides ago it says that
we've got campaign objects coming to the
campaign table and party objects coming
from the party table and you can
actually look at these in here if you
want there's a little data browser where
you can say fetch me all the party
objects that you got in the database a
whole bunch of the america-first party
and the farmer-labor party and the
little you have a liberal party down
here oh isn't that interesting I thought
that was a bad word but there's also a
for instance there's a candidate object
and you can see that the candidate
object has a first name and a last name
in a home state and a couple of
relationships he's a candidate is
related to a party so-and-so ran for the
Republican Party candidate has a
one-to-many you indicated by the two
arrows a one-to-many relationship or a
list of campaigns that this candidate
has been in and there's other useful
tables in here there's an image table of
photos of certain people but I'm gonna
like to add a relationship that's
actually missing here I'd like to be
able to get from the candidate object to
the picture of the candidate object so
I'll add a new relationship not
currently defined in the database to
this particular model and then the
inspector you can give it a little more
detail about this I want to go over to
the from the candidate table to the
image table and it's a one-to-one thing
we're gonna join the image ID here in
the image ID there connect and now that
I've done that every candidate object I
get I can now send this message image
and it will automatically fetch the
picture of that guy for me it actually
does it in a delayed way we have this
incredible deferred faulting you should
really go to some of the advanced COF
things and learn about this is hilarious
but the way we can keep stuff from being
fetched until it's actually need these
engineering guys they've done a lot of
work to minimize the hits to your
database so this is I'm editing a
document here and I want to save this
let's call this put it on a yield
desktop here this is my elections
'i'm one and we'll come back to that
little later that's the end of the
observe a brief feel muddler demo can i
go back to the slides please we're gonna
come back to this you know I left it
there we're gonna come back that was the
really brief ill modeler demo project
builder go to the session on project
builder there's several sessions on
project builder if you like tab sliding
in and out boy are you gonna love this
thing it's like it's like it's kind of
like the Ice Capades with all this stuff
sliding in and out and it's actually
much more powerful and extensible than
the old project builder I I admit it
takes a little getting used to but I
found that actually after I read some of
the documentation about project builder
I liked it quite a bit more than I did
before I read the documentation this is
essentially your development environment
you compile things in here you add
resources you check them into another
CVS if you want you can hear all about
that in other sessions I'm going to use
it minimally later oh now we're gonna
have no demo oh that's great great we
had one slide in between those two demos
I thought I could cool down a little bit
more first can I have this thing back
please let's build a project I want to
make a new project we have all these
wizards that certain people feel they
need to use but we're gonna actually
choose a plane unassisted web objects
application here what do we call this
woe is me how about that and I want to
make a simple application that lets us
browse for presidential candidates the
idea is going to be I type part of the
name came in and I can see if anyone
named Haman has ever run for president
which I'll tell you in advance no they
have but we can try other things as well
so project builder coordinates web
components in your application here's a
main wo that we were talking about
before it's a plain empty little one
that doesn't do very much it coordinates
classes we've got an application object
here Oh big font hey here we go
an application object that doesn't
really do anything other than to say hi
welcome to what was me and a session
object that will be shared by all users
this is really all the code there isn't
this application is a few lines of these
trivial classes here ready for you to
extend as needed but I want to start by
working on this main web objects
interface file here
so this is that editor we were talking
about before if you like you can think
of this as just a simple HTML editor
Explorer exploder ok exploder went up
and you can fool with the fonts and you
can make things bigger and you can bring
up a color panel and be sure to go to
the session 9:57 on using the color
panel no there's there isn't a session I
like that because this takes me back to
the old necks color panel it's so fun to
see these things still here and if you
want this is just editing HTML I haven't
really put anything very interesting in
it and if you wanted to you could pop
over and just look at the raw HTML and
fool with it in here if you want is
nothing to this one yet but it gets more
interesting when I want to put dynamic
objects which are what a lot of these
little buttons are up here into my
application what we really want to do
here is have a form that's a that's a
form gonna be rendered as a form on the
user's web browser we'll put in
someone's last name we'll take part of a
last name in a text field and a submit
button I want to do a legitimate survey
here has anybody in the history of the
web ever felt the need to actually click
on the reset button ever really even in
the most complicated thing do you ever
need to click on reset you know what
else I hate are those stupid links that
take me back to the top of the page well
who needs that who can't figure out how
to get done sorry I've had all these
politics on the brain for a while here
at so now let's let's actually arrange
to fetch the some of these candidate
objects now these these tools talk very
nicely you'll recall that we had our
modeler define a candidate object with a
first name and a last name and a
relationship to a party and if I drag
this little object out here and into
this view it's gonna add my object model
to the big whoa is me application and
it's gonna add what we call a display
group to this particular component and a
display group is this total Swiss Army
knife object that knows how to fetch a
certain kind of object in this case
candidates it knows how to collect the
criteria of what candidate you want to
fetch last name is like this it knows
how to send them back to you in batches
here's the first ten here's the next ten
here's the next ten so all you need to
do is draw some of those lines
to tell the objects in the UI in the top
half what messages should be sent to the
objects back on the server to coordinate
all this fetching so one might start
with let's have that submit button send
the message qualify datasource draw a
line like that now every time a user
sees this submit button in their web
browser it's going to send the form back
to my application and send the message
qualify datasource
to the display group and the display
group is then going to collect some
candidate objects defined according to
my wishes this display group also knows
the various properties of the object is
fetching so here's all the properties of
candidates and you can hook them up here
I want the candidates last name as we're
fetching it to be drawn from there by
the way I want all the I services guys
up here what's more the kickoff if I
miss anything obvious like if I forget
to save something cuz y'all just coughed
a little bit and then I'll just remember
to save it thank you thank you well we
could go with this we can go with this
application we could save it and we
could run it and what would be one
slight problem with this application
then display anything would you take it
on faith for me that it actually fetched
objects will just now move into the step
where we actually display them or just
let me to draw this demo out even
further than I have already
all right let's display them what a
great idea okay sure here we go let's
put in a table web objects has this
little table thing with an idea of if
you want a second row that repeats over
and over again so I want to have one row
of this table for every candidate that
comes back and I can ask this display
group give me all of the displayed
objects on that repetition it's a common
design pattern you have a repetition
associated with something that's going
to be done over and over again so we're
gonna get one row of this table for
every candidate that was fetched we it's
also a common design pattern to use a
special object to go through the table
kind of an iterator object so I might
want to come down here and say I'd like
to add it can to do it Canada take away
candidate object of type can the I don't
have to type the whole thing is sexy a
and I want to create a candidate object
that's private to this particular
component and that candidate it's got a
first name on a last name but if I make
an association like this item this
object will be set once
everything that came back on the list if
I fetched 37 candidates 37 rows in the
table I'll actually have 38 rows because
this is a title row name and I'll fill
these in later well if I click on this
button here these are webobjects strings
these are the simplest possible objects
in the entire web objects framework they
send a message they get a result they
take the string they put it into the
HTML well I can have those send a
message like first name to the current
candidate oblong cup your first name to
the candidate object you draw a line
like that last name to this other string
object and this this is probably worth
actually trying this to see if it works
it doesn't work with a second night
it'll be great but this is a good
starting point here this will actually
display candidates it will fetch a list
of candidate objects it will iterate
through them one of the time and send
the first-name and lastname to each one
get on with it I can hear everyone
saying so we come back here to project
builder we compile always a good
opportunity to have a little drink of
water it's compiling the various Java
classes it's making a big honking jar
what what a web objects application
actually is it's kind of a complicated
directory with let your dot HTML files
and your dot water files and somewhere
in there a jar a jab archive of all of
your classes then there's all these
other frameworks somewhere else in the
computer that themselves contain jars
and other resources and when you run a
web objects application you're actually
launching this shell script that looks
all around it constructs this humongous
class path to find all the objects in
all the jars all over the place and runs
your your main class to get the
application going and as a convenience
it also launches your web breasts so
there's the class path by the way you
didn't believe me but look at that holy
macro go I don't have to type that this
is actually gonna launch my web browser
and have it hopefully display some of
these candidates for me here oh there's
my fantastic form let's compare that
with what the original actually looked
like everybody whose last name begins
with h h backslash H there we go there's
a whole bunch of guys whose names began
with H how many people can identify
Austin holcombe
Enoch hole Twix I'll give $5.00 to
anybody can tell me what party Enoch
Hall Twix ran for president for anyone
anyone no tell netting into my database
and looking around for your Airport
machines anybody well let's find out
well given that we have a candidate
object it's fairly easy to add another
string one of these strings let's ask
the candidate for its party and ask the
party for its name I'm now working my
way through that object graph I've
descended through a couple of levels
down here and what's actually going on
as I'm doing this back in the wad file
is there's now a string called string 3
and it's getting its value by sending
the message party to the candidate and
by sending the message name to that
thing key value coding in action save
that submit this again and look at how
much we're gonna learn now all people
from the natural law party in the
Communist Party the oh the prohibition
party who had prohibition party in the
pool did anyone have the that guy was
liar but by walking through this this
graph of objects you can put up some
pretty interesting data pretty fast on
the screen and I'd like to take
advantage of another relationship that's
defined in this database you'll see that
each candidate has a thing called
campaigns that's a list of all the
campaigns that they were in he ran in
2000 and 96 and 92 and 37 in 1776 and
whenever else they had elections I'd
like to display all of those can't those
campaigns for each of these candidates
because that gives me a let's put a nice
little table and you're gotta be neat
elections which elections was this guy
actually in well let's put in a handy
repetition object so you have a little
loopy thing there that says let's just
go over some list just like we did at
the table and do something over and over
again let's loop over the candidates
election objects like that let me create
a little object here called an election
this would be a little private instance
of the election class in my application
and that'll be the item that we're going
around the list with and we got a little
string here now we've got a repetition
inside a repetition but it just works
let me add a little string and we'll
hook that up to the election year
now at this point we have to actually
pause and compile because in all of that
it added a whole line of code over here
it added this line that declared an
object called election so we'll just
stop whoo recompile have another drink
water close this browser it'll open it
again in a second here our lovely whoa
is me application look at that class I
just love that class path when it goes
by because it reminds me how much work
web objects is doing for me look at all
that stuff it's picking up that I didn't
have to describe that a certain amount
of pattern when you're doing this here
hey H oh look at all these guys that ran
all these different elections somebody
ran in 1892 my database only goes back
to 1892 I'm sorry I could not get the
complete database done in time maybe
next year we'll go back to the Magna
Carta and have every election since then
but for now we can see all I recognize a
couple these guys go John Hagel another
natural law party and Warren Harding he
was somebody wasn't he Benjamin Harrison
didn't he win I don't know we'll get to
that later but it might be interesting
to click on some of these elections and
find out a little more information about
it I gathered that 2000 election was
kind of interesting a little news about
that filtered over the border so it
might be might be useful to have a page
where we can display some details about
a particular election this gives me an
excuse to introduce the idea of a
component that does one thing and that
does one thing well I want to make a
little components in web objects builder
I'll make a new one and actually you
know what I got two ways to do it and
the other way is better for reasons that
are not worth explaining right at this
point in time I want to make a new web
objects component inside project builder
for anyone who's wondering why I do it
this way take a look at radar
election details and you know we should
go to the project builder session to
figure out what the heck is going on
with all these target things I think
that's the one I want I don't know is
you're copping going on over there no no
coughing good I'm all right I've created
another component and I've added it to
my application and the idea of this one
is going to be it's going to have its
own private election object let's create
another one and let's remember to set it
because we want to set it from the first
page
the fabulous election of some year and
we're gonna display everybody who ran in
this particular election another table
you don't the talk you can really do
this pretty fast each election we want
to go through all the campaign's
associated with that election we want to
have a campaign object on this page as
well because these are separate pages
separate objects and for each campaign
that's gonna be my list I want to
display the first name and the last name
just like we did before of the candidate
relationship I got a lot of
relationships in this database
first name and last name and let's
display the party because that's so easy
it is
stop laughing it is easy you love this
party the party's name and let's put
titles on it because my mother might be
watching the DVD and she'll wonder why I
didn't put titles on here and a date
right by the way I'd like to say hello
to everyone that's watching the DVD in
the future hello people in the future
with the flying cars how are you
how is web objects version 14
alright are you looking back at this and
going that was so primitive I can't
believe how did my children turn out did
they go to college I hope so can i
expense their tuition now can i expense
their tuition with that because i
mentioned them and i don't think so
party party thank you I spelled party
wrong and let's get fancy here let's
display no not up there let's display
how many votes each person got because
this really gets into borderline abuse
of this whole key value coding business
here but if you dig deeply into this
kind of stuff you can say for each where
are we here for each campaign I want to
add up won't take all the votes objects
and display them there but I don't
really want to list all the votes
objects what I want to do is throw this
little token that says some don't list
the things on the right-hand side add
them up so that's gonna add up how many
votes each guy got all that is a key
isn't a nice object that can display
everything about one election provided
we tell it which election we want one
could do that on the first page remember
the main page remember how we had a
hyperlink or a piece of text displaying
the election year I can make that into a
hyperlink by clicking on that little
button which wraps this thing inside a
wo hyperlink object and hyperlinks
actually send an action message back to
the application when they're clicked on
just like my submit button did but I
want this one to send an application of
my choosing show me all about this here
election how how long can an identifier
be in Java I don't know it's there's at
least that line and I'll tell it to go I
just type even knew I had a page called
election details in there already and
we'll arrange for that hyperlink show me
all about this here election to be
called for everyone these are going to
be hyperlinks and even though there's 30
election years on the page they're all
sending the same message back to web
objects and web objects knew how it made
this page so it can easily just figure
out which of all those 35 election
objects is the one that sent me this
message this is really kind of a
powerful concept you're not encoding
junk into the URLs yourself as you
generate these pages
you're letting web objects do all the
heavy lifting of sorting out
collections of objects and indicating to
you which one was actually selected say
that say that come back to project no
wait what are you doing
all right wrong wrong application let's
say that project okay here we go Steve's
gonna try to type a line of Java code
without making a mistake here's my main
application here is my nice show me all
about this here election method that I
just asked web objects builder to create
for me you can see what it's doing here
it's looking up the page called election
details and it's returning that page
that page will be blank if I don't dive
in here and rescue the situation well I
want to tell the next page set the
election that you're displaying to be
the same one as my election object
remember I've got an election object up
here that I'm using to go around the
loop of all the elections I want to
that's going to be set automatically to
whichever one of the forty nine
hyperlinks it was that sent me this
message but it's going to set it to the
object that caused that hyperlink to be
created and just in one step like this
pass it over to the next page Oh is
there any hope that I've done all that
without making a mistake and here any
copy over here oh not the sneeze oh no
not the sneeze that was a secret single
signal for something that I've forgotten
okay start running this again here how
come no one's asked why I'm running the
classic Internet Explorer yet and not
the carbon one it will become clear in a
moment it's part of my fascination with
XML and my shock and horror how some
things aren't implemented as widely as
you hope when you start designing your
your web www.daytontoyota.com
lets you know you don't believe me this
is a real database tell me about in
nineteen fifty two who here voted in the
1952 election Bob did you know okay
well the 2,000 that's the one that I
remember the 2000 election and now that
I got this page going here we'll look at
the details page and the first thing I
might do is to take that string that's
representing the number and in the
inspector one can say don't just pump up
the number pump but out with commas
because that just looks so nice makes
the change like that is coming out with
comes oh yeah you can take at it you see
this little path down here this is how
things are nested I got a string inside
a table data inside the table row inside
aw oh repetition I could take that table
data and inspect it and say you should
horizontally aligned everything to the
right because that would probably look
better that does look better you can
even come in here and say let's add in
this first cell an image object remember
I added that image relationship about 23
minutes and 11 seconds ago in the demo
that was not for no reason
try translating that sentence
remember my candidate object has a
relationship to an image object and
images have some data and they have a
mime type that just says whether their
gift for jpg I happen to have a database
table full of images here conveniently
and oh that's better how do you like
that would you vote for this guy
I don't know well a lot of people voted
for some of these guys and to my naive
view I might think that since this
number is greater than this number but I
don't know anything I have a Canadian
math degree we do it a different way up
there but but you know what I'm kind of
I'm kind of a I'm kind of a visual I'm
kind of a visual guy not only am i
rugged outdoorsman but I'm also kind of
a visual guy and I would like to
leverage some work that's already been
done in this area how many of you have
heard of SVG from Adobe scaled when
scalable vector graphics looks a lot
like PostScript in many ways always XML
it's a way of describing an image and
sending it to a browser and then the
browser is gonna draw it for you I want
to draw those little maps like they have
on election night with all the states
colored in wouldn't that be cool I've
already got in my database information
about you didn't see the electoral
there's an electoral votes table in
there as well but how many electoral
votes each guy got wouldn't be cool if I
could hook up the list of who want
electoral votes where to something that
knew how to draw a list of states
wouldn't that be cool no oh come on
please thank you okay
well too bad that part's not working no
no
actually no it is working it's not going
to work yet because I have to add a
couple of frameworks to my project
frameworks are collections of objects
that already exist we give you some I
wrote some in my spare time and I enter
that on the timesheet appropriately and
if I add them over here too I happen to
have I got this this firewire disk I
love them firewire discs boy-oh-boy
because I've got conveniently over here
some frameworks that have just been
hanging around waiting for the right
time to be used in a in a situation just
like this let me add three of my
favorite frameworks of objects I've
personally written in the past to this
application actually you know what what
let me quit that okay now I'm going to
do this what we'll discuss that later I
want to add them and once again I look
at all these little targets and I go oh
man the application server I think so
these are what the project builder can
build different targets and they build a
collection of things that go for the web
server like static gift images and stuff
that belong in the web server but in
this case I'm adding frame which the
actual binary and because I've done that
I can take my little election details
component go back into web objects
builder here and take advantage of some
pallets remember I talked about oops
pardon me that's just one app on the
screen at the time how's that ever
talked about pallets these little handy
collections of pre-written objects that
other people have written you get a
bunch of these width web objects none of
them draw maps but they do a number of
useful things this one does you know one
of the great things about web objects is
that this product is so sophisticated
that here's a whole pallet full of
objects I have no idea what any of them
do but it comes with web objects it's
great it's it's smil this is a whoa
smell what is that synchronize multi is
there a session on that one let's hope
so
because this isn't it but let me
in addition I've got I've got some
pallets of my own I'm a bit of a pallet
junkie and I've got a few of these guys
there's one and open him and we'll open
this guy and these are sort of related
to those frameworks and these pallets
gosh I just thought of something here no
I'm good I'm good
these pallets are objects that I've
collected over the years they do various
useful interesting things I got some
little JavaScript doodads and I've got a
thing that makes words plural that was
the big hit of WDC mm thank you very
much and but to alway do you see this
these draw maps these take SVG files
back on the server which you can create
with Adobe Illustrator or a bunch of
other applications they're just text
files that describe polygons put line
line line line line line line line line
and then you give it a label montaa
line line line line line line Indiana
this line and this other line Michigan
and if you make one of these things up
Michigan and if you two polygons if you
make if you have one of these things in
SVG I wanted to find an excuse to use
this xerxes parser that we've put into
web objects 5 this is an XML parser from
the Apache project and someone wrote a
little thing that would parse one of
these SVG Maps using this parser which
is it's so easy it's unbelievable and
every time it saw a polygon it would
look at the name of the state Montana
and it would consult another list is
Montana on my list okay I will fill it
in it's not on my list I'll leave it
outlined and I put a bunch of these
things together on a palette like this I
got one a Canada one of the u.s. one of
Europe I've got one of North America
which might as well use that one since I
am thinking about my comrades back home
on holiday today at the beach
not working sweating sweating up here
under the light over there six more
weeks of winter I forgot well we're ice
fishing we're ice fishing at the beach
what's a guy yeah exactly yeah what's a
girl with you we let me draw them oops
we there we go
that's an object that will draw maps of
Canada and/or the United States provided
you tell it you bind it in web objects
builder to something else that knows
about a list of regions this is why I
love key value coding we're gonna go in
here we're gonna take the current
campaign object take all of its
electoral votes objects ask each of them
for their state ask each of those states
for its state name and by that - art
selections list can it be that easy
people come up to me and they say Steve
can it what what oh all right
Oh about the wrong thing pardon me
thank you for coughing selections what's
wrong with that there we go
I put two of them in oh my mistake I got
ya
this time there's this there's this
little validation window in will builder
that will tell you when you design a
component you can say this is a required
binding this one's optional this thing
will check when you save them and here I
was panicking and it was right I I did
have one in there that was unbound thank
you for the coffee did I say this I save
this project builder will build this
again I added the framework so they're
gonna find the code to load this SVG
parsing thing this is why I'm using
classic internet explorer SVG plugins
are only available for certain browsers
not including the new carbonized
internet explorer so that's why I'm
using this classic thing here we'll
start this this is all going to be very
anticlimactic if this doesn't work which
is strong possibility at this point
launch the application its class path is
even more complicated now because it
includes three of my frameworks and all
them little doodads and going to open
this up here that looks good
tell me about all the guys named no Bush
well it's two of them okay tell me about
this one talk about the big election of
2000 all this is getting complicated now
it's loading up all these SPG things
it's loading the Adobe SPG plug-in and
for each guy that actually has electoral
votes it's filling in that thing with
the necessary states but but
[Music]
but you're saying Steve they're all the
same color what can we do well remember
part did you have the noise of my eel
model that parties had a color you can
ask the current where are we here in my
object graph campaign ask the current
candidate for his party past the party
for its color tell the map to use that
color Oh waitron one here go quick red
ones and blue ones but I I still can't
really tell from looking at who the
winner is it looks to me like there's
more red pixels on the screen is that
how it works is it like by square miles
how do they do it but I might want to
this might be a good opportunity to
write a little object that can solve
this problem for us once and for all so
let's return to this eel model and I
must close it let me reopen this eel
model here and we talked about the idea
of business logic in these objects and
so far all the objects that I've got
defined here what we call generic
records they're just simple containers
they they store some data you can send
em a message they respond with the data
but they don't make any decisions they
don't implement any logic but I might
like to take a couple of these and make
Java classes for them to be added to my
project and we'll come back here and
actually add those files to the project
itself it-it's no creative campaign Java
an election Jeb and I want to make them
part of my project come look at this
panel again and go uh yeah okay that one
all right and if we look at the election
object you can see that it just has it's
a simple data contain it's got a bunch
of methods you can send it the message
here and it returns the year you can
send the message campaigns and it
returns the list of campaigns well I'd
like to send the message winner and have
it implement you know check with the
Supreme Court and see what the date is
and decide who the things have expired
and decide who the winner is whatever
that is now that that's I want to write
to
methods here we want to write one method
that sorts everybody according to
electoral votes because I understand
that is sort of how this works right
right and I want to write a second one
that takes the sorted list and returns
the guy at the top of the list and you
all thought I was kidding about using
stickies for development there there's a
method that returns the winner it asks
for all the sorted campaigns here's a
method that sorts the campaigns by this
by this key sum up the electoral votes
for each guy save those let's um let's
build that and the fact that not what
have I done I just added two additional
methods to the election object and if
you look back in web objects builder
over here you'll see that the we're
going through elections and the election
now suddenly has this winner property
these tools are talking back and forth
web objects builder has discovered that
there's an additional method available
to election objects we can send the
message winner and it returns a campaign
and here's you can send the message
candidate to the winning campaign and
figure out who that was and you could
put something up here that says your
winner last first name last name first
name last name I think I can do that
compile that well that was happening I
don't remember I think I did
never hurts to compile it again I want
it really compiled you know I want the
bits to stick to the disk
cosmic rays could be entering the
auditorium here and then messing this up
it's gonna watch again here lots of
chatty error messages here if you like
you can turn on a variable it has all
the SQL it's being sent to the database
spit out here that's fun to read very
actually very useful for debugging I
mean sometimes you just can't figure out
why is this so Sloane's because you were
fetching the same object too many times
or you weren't batching things in an
effective efficient way that that EOF
lets you do so I was H guys again John
Hagelin he ran in 2000 who's wait wait
oh these quote that we put all right I'm
gonna tell you something I've got this
other monitor here I've got a sticky on
here to remind me what to do and right
there in bold it says save the EO model
I forgot
save thank you and build it again sorry
the what happened there it was trying to
send a message winner to a neo generic
record because that's what the previous
CEO model said election objects word I
added something here but it didn't know
about but pardon me hopefully this is
worth it did we know who the winner is
I'm not this isn't news to anybody is it
I mean you read the papers
hope so it's Gor still in it is there
still a chance how long does this go on
I'm not sure four years yeah
here a 2000 election if it's fetching a
whole bunch of things you are winner
george w bush it it evaluated that
custom business rule to add up electoral
votes and decide who had the most and in
fact so long as has done that remember i
added a method called sorted campaigns
we could take that table there instead
of going through all the unsorted
campaigns we could ask the election for
the sorted campaigns and that that
repetition would look that much better
that's gonna be my list two sort of
campaigns now we're not gonna have this
howard phillips guy at the top anymore
thank goodness there's a George Bush Al
Gore and Nader and FEC Howard Phillips
various various other people so I think
I've shown some relatively interesting
concepts here the idea that you can have
Business Objects and that was a pretty
trivial rule I was just sorting
something and taking the first one but
you could implement much more
complicated business rules and you
frequently do with web objects in your
own application students are they
eligible to graduate well we check have
they paid their parking fines and have
they returned all their library books
but they pass all the tests is the
supervisor still say they're okay you
know you can implement that kind of
logic when it's appropriate in these
middle tier Business Objects and all
this stuff is being done in a database
independent way none of these objects
are even aware which database they were
coming from which means you can do one
last moderately cool thing here let's
remember I made I made this eel model
here that said let's talk to the US
elections database and let's fetch
candidate objects and elections and so
on let's take then we take that out of
my model and we've got my firewire disk
here bring a different eel model
models you bring another yo model and
put it back in the same place and we'll
start this application again here oops
well compile it and start again
maybe I had to do that so I've dropped a
different a totally different eel model
in here totally different fetching from
an entirely probably different database
could it could be an entirely different
database than the one that we're using
here it could be but we don't know
because we just put an object model in
there and the object model has all the
information about how to actually fetch
things so once this thing gets going
again here let's um
this time fetch all the candidates oh
wait a minute who are these guys
Stockwell de Reform Party what is this
different database oh my god tell me
about that election oh wait wait wait
wait hold your plus here comes your
winter jean chretien
oh he won all those seats and day when
he went all those ones out west and the
bloc qubcois very popular out there
and NDP seem to have some large chunk of
northern Manitoba so this application is
completely ignorant of what data source
it's actually using it's all revolves
around that yield model I told it to use
a different database with it could have
been a different schema and I could tell
you was a different schema I wouldn't
have to show you and you'd have to
believe me but it was the same but it
made the same kind of objects with the
same relationships and the the complete
separation of back-end and front-end of
interface these these SVG map drawn
objects at the front end these data
bearing objects they're coming out of
open base or or front base or Oracle or
how many people added the IBM number and
the Informix number together on that
graph
anyway it could be any one of those I
mean one of those databases and you see
the the separation of the backend in the
front-end enables you to do some pretty
interesting things here how many people
are running what the heck happened in
Nunavut on this map
Canadians are going there's no none of
it on the map the Americans are going to
what who had no problem with one polygon
can I go back to my slides please I want
to finish up with a few more concepts
here
nobody said you had to use HTML I was
using SVG here which is a form of XML
that's sent to the to the client we have
some pretty cool technologies that lets
you build pure java applications
including Java client I would certainly
urge you to go and see the director Java
client there's two director Java client
sessions and the direct to web part me
I'll go and check out the report mill
and see how they're delivering PDF and
sort of a similar way here talk to guys
like me about how we did this XML thing
and take a look at some of our
assistance we have direct to web which
takes an EO model like I just made and
makes you a full-featured application
that's pretty much done that you can
tweak through this very interesting
rules engine which you can learn about
it the director web session director
Java client the same sort of thing with
a Java client interface and for
deployment we've got a good session on
deployment that tells you what the heck
is going on here how do I keep all these
arrows going what is the role of the web
objects tasks daemon that runs on each
of these machines to keep an eye on
everything how does it communicate with
the web objects adapter through the
firewall what what are these messages
that are going back and forth well we
have a whole architecture and a tool
called monitor that lets you describe
how many applications you're running and
where and it sort of lays everything out
for you it starts them up it gives you a
UI like this where it will start three
copies on that machine and two on this
machine and inform the whet the adapter
on the web server about what's going on
and generally it works pretty well
alright it always works pretty well I'm
sorry weird this stuff works great
engineering has done a heroic job and a
migrating this stuff to Javan the fact
that it works at all considering where
they came from this objective-c code
base to where it is now it's nothing
short of miraculous
we have a number of how many people here
go into all the web objects sessions
that people here for the whole track
well that's great you're gonna love all
of these these are all great these are
all great and what is the deal with web
objects four or five one well Mac os10
objective-c only you don't want this
unless you already have a web objects
project that you want to bring to a Mac
OS 10 machine if you're starting
something new you want you definitely
want web objects five you do want web
objects four or five one if you're going
to bring a product to if you're already
using four or five on one of the other
platforms as well you can
that along the only thing that's really
missing is support for Java on Mac OS 10
with this product we still support Java
and objective-c both on Windows NT and
ones 2000 and Solaris and hp-ux just
like before but this is it we swear this
is the last time we're doing an
objective-c release with web objects
we're no more fooling around here we're
not gonna so if you're starting
something new I really urge you to look
at web objects fly because 4-5-1 is for
people migrating existing projects along
moving 4 or 5 to 5 pretty easy if you've
got a project we've got a whole session
on that the api's are pretty close
learn more a couple of web objects
training classes that you can use
week-long class on development another
week-long class on more development and
another three day class on deployment
the excellent excellent classes taught
by our eye services technical training
guys feel free to come and see us in the
lab in room K and the other building
which is on the ground floor play with
all this stuff I'm gonna try to have my
demo running on the machine I'll try to
have that set up if anyone wants to see
what the deal with that
SVG mapping thing was and why Nunavut
was missing maybe we could help me help
me put it back in there and there's lots
more sessions they asked us to put up
the most relevant sessions on these
slides I couldn't really think what they
were because they're all good from this
point on I have the advantage in doing
the technical overview that that all
this great stuff is following behind me
and I can refer you to virtually any
session that's coming up on web objects
who to contact Tony
Bob I services guys a whole bunch of
URLs
you